{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\deflang1031\deflangfe1031{\fonttbl{\f0\fmodern\fprq1\fcharset0 Courier New;}{\f1\fswiss\fprq2\fcharset0 Arial;}}
{\*\generator Msftedit 5.41.15.1515;}\viewkind4\uc1\pard\nowidctlpar\lang1033\f0\fs20 #\par
# GCCG v0.9.6 Middle-earth deck\par
#\par
#      DCCD - Dwarf-lord - Balin - Lord of Moria\par
#\par
\par
\par
After the successful expedition to the Lonely Mountain, Balin again grows restless. He has recovered some of the ancient treasures for the house of Durin and avenged himself on the dragon, but the heart of their kingdom, their most fabled dwelling, is still lost: Moria! Endless were the riches the Dwarves could gather there. Ores to be delved and jewels and stones to be crafted, and the veins of Mithril are not yet depleted. Orcs now befoul that place of wonder. It cannot be borne, Moria must be recovered! \par
Besides, it's all well to sit in the halls of his distant cousin Dain, but better to have a throne of his own. So once more, Balin recruits a few young Dwarves eager for adventure and embarks on a trip to Moria, under cover of darkness.\par
\par
\par
\par
Starting company: Frerin (Promise of Treasure), Attack-lord, Borin (Deadly Dart), Loni (Miner's Pick), Oin (Pipe)\par
Starting events: Balin Dwarf of All Trades, Crimson Hood, Promise of Treasure\par
Starting site: Blue Mountain Dwarf-hold\par
DC intensity: high (40%)\par
\par
1) The final objective of the deck is to reclaim Moria for the Dwarves and make it a Dwarf-hold. This is not easily done and takes some time, but there are many other options should this not work out. The main focus of the deck is in the Under-deeps, but you might also submerge and travel above ground to Moria. The 3 cards that you need to reclaim Moria are all in sideboard, as well as some cool items to play there. But with \i Longbottom Leaf \i0 you can get them easily nearing the end of the cycle, when you arrive at Moria.\par
2) When Balin enters play, use him to bring some cards to the discard pile: \i Longbottom Leaf \i0 2x, \i Into Dark Tunnels\i0 , \i Return to Khazad-d\'fbm \i0 and \i Lord of Dwarrowdelf\i0 . Use the \i Pipe\i0  to get Longbottoms and Smoke Rings to either hand (if on Balin) or play deck. If possible, leave a Dwarf behind at Blue Mountain Dwarf-hold to use the Pipe, bring in the faction and play some more low mind Dwarves who can get your ally (\i Bill the Pony\i0 ).\par
3) There are several roads that lead to Moria. The best option will be to go underground from the Blue Mountain Dwarf-hold to Drowning Deeps, and make your way via Under-vaults and Under-leas. You might move first to Creb Durga, submerge there and travel to the Under-gates straight away or via the Gem-deeps, but this depends a bit on your first hand and first cards drawn. The Creb Durga road is more dangerous but faster and more useful as you can play the Deep Mountain Fortress more easily (make a haven underground to pick up some more Dwarves and store cards, e.g. at Gem-deeps). But if Balin is not yet in play it will be harder to meet up with him later.\par
   So, if you have some stage points and Balin in play early on, tap \i Dwarf of All Trades \i0 to get \i Vein of Arda \i0 quickly at the Deep Mines first and store it, so you can play \i Gems of Arda \i0 and \i Mithril\i0  easily. You might move to moria above ground then, but don't be fooled, underground can actually be safer, more rewarding and even quicker: use \i Fungi\i0  and \i Into Dark Tunnels \i0 (recycle with \i Dwarven Galleries\i0 ) to move quickly underground.\par
4) You need \i Return to Khazad-d\'fbm\i0  to play the other 2 mission cards: \i Halls of Khazad-d\'fbm \i0 and \i Reconquest of Khazad-d\'fbm \i0 (in this order). \i Son of Fundin \i0 can get it back from to hand from discard pile for you. The attacks from the first two cards won't cause too much trouble. For \i Reconquest of Khazad-d\'fbm \i0 there is \i The Old Thrush \i0 in sideboard and you can use the \i Deadly Dart\i0  also to try and defeat the \i Balrog of Moria\i0 . Try to protect the Balrog from tough adventurers who like the kill points (e.g. Elrond deck), with Sellswords and Giants.\par
5) Final tips: \par
- Balin will have to do a lot of work, as he will be your main sage and big Dwarf to play many cards. Play \i His Beard Long and Forked \i0 on a 5 mind Dwarf and help him stay untapped (after sideboarding or for using Pipe e.g.).\par
- After you play \i Reconquest of Khazad-d\'fbm\i0  Moria will be a Dwarf-hold, so you can store cards and play characters there. \par
- Quite a few of the Man hazards are region based. Use \i Thrice Outnumbered \i0 to get the appropriate hazard back in deck time and again.\par
- Fungi might not seem very tasteful, but they are very useful nevertheless.\par
- If the mission to Moria fails utterly, perhaps because your opponent is The Balrog, then you can also divert to the Glittering Caves and make a Dwarf-hold there with Aglarond (sideboard).\par
\par
\par
####\par
Deck\par
####\par
\par
# Hazard (33)\par
\par
1 Abductor (TW)\par
2 Ambusher (TW)\par
1 An Unexpected Outpost (DM)\par
1 Balrog of Moria (TW)\par
1 Bardings (GW)\par
1 Cardolanian Whalers (NW)\par
2 Corsairs of Umbar (TW)\par
1 Despair of the Heart (TW)\par
1 Dunlending Raiders (TD)\par
1 Foolish Words (LE)\par
2 Frightful Guardian (GW)\par
2 Giant (TW)\par
1 Greed (TW)\par
1 His Own Master (ROTS)\par
1 Horse-lords (LE)\par
1 Lord of the Carrock (AS)\par
1 Lure of Expedience (LE)\par
1 Men of the Wood (GW)\par
1 Mouth of Sauron (TW)\par
1 Out of Practise (DF)\par
3 Rank upon Rank (DM)\par
3 Sellswords Between Charters (LE)\par
2 Thrice Outnumbered (LE)\par
1 Twilight (LE)\par
\par
# Hero Character (9)\par
\par
3 Balin [D] (DF)\par
1 Bifur (TW)\par
1 Bofur (TW)\par
1 Dr\'f3r (DM)\par
1 Dwarf-miner (DF)\par
1 King's Advisor (DF)\par
1 Pathfinder (DF)\par
\par
# Resources (33)\par
\par
1 An Unexpected Party (DM)\par
1 Bill the Pony (TW)\par
1 Blue Mountain Dwarves (TW)\par
1 Clan Bonds (DF)\par
1 Concealment (TW)\par
2 Dwarven Light-stone (DM)\par
1 Dwarven-axe (DF)\par
2 Marvels Told (TD)\par
2 Smoke Rings (DM)\par
3 The Dwarves Are upon You! (DM)\par
1 To the Uttermost Foundations (DM)\par
1 Vein of Arda (DM)\par
1 Without a Glance of Longing (DF)\par
\par
2 Fungi (DF)\par
1 His Beard Long and Forked (DF)\par
1 Origin of Stone (DF)\par
\par
2 Crept Along Cleverly (WH)\par
1 Iron Shield of Old (AS)\par
2 Swift Strokes (LE)\par
\par
1 Clad for War (DF)\par
1 Deep Mountain Fortress (DF)\par
1 Dwarven-galleries (DF)\par
1 Great Miners (DF)\par
1 No Mouse Unnoticed (DF)\par
1 Son of Fundin (DF)\par
\par
####\par
Pool\par
####\par
\par
# Hero Character (8)\par
\par
1 Attack-lord (DF)\par
\lang1031 1 Borin (DF)\par
1 Dori (TW)\par
1 Frerin (DF)\par
\lang1033 1 Gl\'f3in (TW)\par
1 Loni (DF)\par
1 Norin (DF)\par
1 \'d3in (TW)\par
\par
# Hero Resource (1)\par
\par
1 Pipe (DF)\par
1 Deadly Dart (PR)\par
1 Miner's Pick (DF)\par
\par
# Stage Resource (2)\par
\par
1 Balin, Dwarf of All Trades (DF)\par
1 Crimson Hood (DF)\par
\par
#########\par
Sideboard\par
#########\par
\par
# Hazard (3)\par
\par
1 Covetous Thoughts (LE)\par
1 Many Burdens (ROTS)\par
1 Muster Disperses (LE)\par
\par
# Hero Resource (17)\par
\par
1 Aglarond (TI)\par
1 Book of Mazarbul (TW)\par
1 Durin's Crown (DF)\par
1 Gems of Arda (DM)\par
1 Gollum (TW)\par
1 Halls of Khazad-d\'fbm (DF)\par
1 Into Dark Tunnels (DM)\par
2 Longbottom Leaf (BA)\par
1 Map to Mithril (TD)\par
1 Mithril (DM)\par
1 Petty-dwarves [H] (AS)\par
1 Reconquest of Khazad-d\'fbm (DF)\par
1 Return to Khazad-d\'fbm (DF)\par
1 The Old Thrush (TW)\par
\par
1 Folk of Durin (DF)\par
1 Lord of Dwarrowdelf (DF)\par
\par
#####\par
Sites\par
#####\par
\par
# Dual Site (1)\par
\par
1 Durin's Tower (DF)\par
\par
# Fallen-wizard Site (3)\par
\par
2 Blue Mountain Dwarf-hold [F] (DF)\par
1 Deep Mines (WH)\par
\par
# Hero Site (29)\par
\par
1 Andoloki [H] (NW)\par
1 Bag End [H] (TW)\par
\lang1031 1 Bar-en-Ib\'fbn [H] (DF)\par
\lang1033 1 Barrow-downs [H] (TW)\par
1 Bree [H] (TW)\par
1 Carn D\'fbm [H] (TW)\par
1 Creb Durga [H] (KN)\par
1 Dimrill Dale [H] (TW)\par
1 Dol Guldur [H] (TW)\par
1 Glittering Caves [H] (TW)\par
1 Goblin-gate [H] (TW)\par
1 Moria [H] (TW)\par
1 Mount Gram [H] (TW)\par
1 Mount Gundabad [H] (TW)\par
1 Ruins of Belegost [H] (DF)\par
1 Ruins of Nogrod [H] (DF)\par
1 Steel Fall [H] (GW)\par
1 The Drowning-deeps [H] (DF)\par
\lang1031 1 The Gem-deeps [H] (DM)\par
\lang1033 1 The Iron-deeps [H] (DM)\par
1 The Sulfur-deeps [H] (DM)\par
1 The Under-Caves [H] (KN)\par
1 The Under-gates [H] (DM)\par
1 The Under-grottos [H] (DM)\par
1 The Under-leas [H] (DM)\par
1 The Under-vaults [H] (DM)\par
1 The Wind Throne [H] (TW)\par
1 The Wind-deeps [H] (DF)\par
\lang1031 1 Thunder Cleft [H] (GW)\par
\par
\f1\par
}
 